this program is how to measure steering
cables at some point in every boats life
if it has mechanical steering you're
going to have to replace the steering
cable in the case of this particular
cable that I have in front of me it's
from a rotary helm and once you take the
cable off the boat if you look at the
engine end of the cable on the plastic
jacket you'll find part numbers in this
particular case the part number on this
cable because it's a telefax cable is SS
C 63 16 those last two digits indicate
the length of the cable in feet now if
it's a Morse cable it'll be the last
three digits and that will be the length
of the cable in inches if you can't find
the part number on the plastic jacket
then you're going to have to measure the
plastic jacket only from end to end when
you've done that when you've measured
the plastic jacket from end to end add
18 inches and then round up to the
nearest foot now be aware that some of
the cables that you may take off of a
boat are the original equipment cables
and they could be in a length that is a
foot and a fraction as an example it
could be 15 feet 6 inches or it could be
16 feet 6 inches all of the replacement
cables that we have available are in 1
foot increments so so that's the reason
that you need to to do the rounding up
so if you've got a 15 and a half foot
cable or 15 feet 6 inches you need to
round up to 16 feet the same would hold
true on the rack and pinion cables if
you have to replace the rack and pinion
cable it's the same type of measurements
you measure the plastic jacket and to
end but in this case you add 30 inches
and then round up to the nearest foot
again
for a new steering system installation
on a stern drive application you're
going to need to have three dimensions
to get the cable length correct
the first one is the a dimension which
takes you from the centerline of the
helm over to the gunnel your B dimension
is going to take you from the gunnel all
the way back to where the gunnel and the
transom meet and your C dimension is
going to be from the point where the
gunnel and transom come together to the
centerline of the stern drive those are
the three measurements you need to get
the correct length of steering cable for
sterndrive application when measuring
the steering cable for an outboard
application you need to add six inches
to the a B and C dimensions if you have
the steering cable going through the
tilt tube on the outboard